Q--How does OCA Ontology relate to the ontology developed as part of the OASIS-open NIEM project?

A.
The information exchange model is focused on standardization to enable information exchange. While it has some semantic components (a basic taxonomy), it does not focus on giving semantic meaning to the data to support the process of integration and knowledge development. For example, it creates the standard for a telephone number format. But then it goes on to list a home, work, cell number, etc and specifies all those formats. That ends up being redundant. Instead, it should just specify the format for a phone number, then the ontology would differentiate between the meaning of a phone number, the device it is rings on, and the relationship of the device to a person. In short, the CAN be complimentary efforts if we make the effort to coordinate our projects. I would love to have someone take on the responsibility of coordinating these projects.

On one hand, NIEM is a framework for creating precise specifications of data exchanged between automated processes.  On the other, the OCA Ontology Working group is focused on capturing the formal semantics of information concepts in shared ontologies that enable consistent automated machine reasoning, analysis, and data integration. Both are concerned with establishing a shared understanding of the meaning of data, with making data more accessible, and with supporting the ends of cyber security organizations.

The Ontology Working Group should ensure that it is able to reuse NIEM data definitions to the maximal degree and rely on NIEM-conforming runtime data as one important source for the population of our ontology-annotated data stores. The WG should seek to facilitate the reuse of ontology definitions in NIEM-conforming message specifications.  We can also work with NIEM as a vehicle for testing the capabilities of our different approaches in dealing with different kinds of data, focusing specifically on capabilities relevant to the needs of the Community.
